[move-mutator] documentation update (#83)
eigerco/aptos-core: third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/README.md

---
id: move-mutator
title: Move Mutation Tool
---

# move-mutator

## Summary

> The `move-mutator` tool is a mutation testing tool for the Move language. 

Author: Mutator is a general tool and it may be used for some other purposes :) 

I wouldn't mention about it.

To check if it works, run the following command:
```bash
./target/release/move mutate -m third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/tests/move-assets/simple/sources/Sum.move
```

or

```bash
./target/release/aptos move mutate -m third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/tests/move-assets/simple/sources/Sum.move
```

The output will be generated to the chosen directory, or in case no directory
was selected, produced mutants, and reports will be stored under 

> `mutants_output` directory.

Author: Done.

The mutator tool respects `RUST_LOG` variable, and it will print out as much
information as the variable allows. To see all the logs run:
```bash
RUST_LOG=trace ./target/debug/move mutate -m third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/tests/move-assets/simple/sources/Sum.move
```
There is possibility to enable logging only for the specific modules. Please
refer to the [env_logger](https://docs.rs/env_logger/latest/env_logger/) documentation for more details.

There are also good tests in the Move Prover repository that can be used to
check the tool. To run them, just use:
```
./target/release/move mutate -m third_party/move/move-prover/tests/sources/functional/arithm.move
./target/release/move mutate -m third_party/move/move-prover/tests/sources/functional/bitwise_operators.move
./target/release/move mutate -m third_party/move/move-prover/tests/sources/functional/nonlinear_arithm.move
./target/release/move mutate -m third_party/move/move-prover/tests/sources/functional/shift.move
```

> and observe `mutants_output` directory. You can freely experiment with the
> mutator tool and check how it works on different Move files.

Reviewer: > You can freely experiment with the mutator tool and check how it works on different Move files.

No need for this part - this is self-implied and it feels like noise in the text 😃 
```suggestion
and observe `mutants_output` directory.
```

Author: Done.

To generate mutants for all files within a test project (for the whole Move 
package) run:
```bash
./target/release/move mutate -p third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/tests/move-assets/simple/
```
or appropriately for `aptos`:
```bash
./target/release/aptos move mutate --package-dir third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/tests/move-assets/simple/
```

Running the above command (`aptos` one) will generate mutants for all files
within the `simple` test project and should generate following output:
```
$ ./target/release/aptos move mutate --package-dir third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/tests/move-assets/simple/
{
  "Result": "Success"
}
```

You can also examine reports made inside the output directory.

It's also possible to generate mutants for a specific module by using the 
`--mutate-modules` option:
```bash
./target/release/move mutate -p third_party/move/tools/move-mutator/tests/move-assets/simple/ --mutate-modules "Sum"
```

> Running the mutator tool generates a lot of files. Except for the mutants, it
> also generates reports - in JSON and text format. Those reports are stored in 
> the output directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mutator tool generates:
- mutants (modified move source code)
- reports about mutants in JSON and text format
```

Author: Done.
